Copyright (C) 1991 The Stone Soup Group.  FRACTINT for
Presentation Manager may be freely copied and distributed,
but may not be sold.

GIF and "Graphics Interchange Format" are trademarks of Compuserve
Incorporated, an H&R Block Company.


How to operate Mandelbrot Investigator.

The Mandelbrot Investigator operates from the menu via either
a mouse or a keyboard.
However, zooming and panning using either View/Pan Center
or the View/Zoom In/Zoom Out works only with a mouse.
To change the are of the fractal viewed using the keyboard,
change the extents and/or center using Options/Extents.

The main controls are the fifth and sixth menu bar entries.
The fifth entry switches between "Halt!" and "Freeze!".
When "Halt!" is displayed, it implies that a fractal is being
calculated and drawn, and if you want to stop the calculation,
select "Halt!" and it will stop shortly.
When "Freeze!" is displayed, a calculation is not in progress
and selecting "Freeze!" will cause a calculation to not automatically
start, as it would after selecting values from either the
View, Options, or File pull-downs, but will wait for an explicit "Go!" menu
selection.

To see a smaller part of the fractal, blown up to full screen size,
use selections from the View/Zoom In or View/Zoom Out menu.
View changing with the mouse
is Object/Action oriented, as the IBM SAA guidelines
expect.
Zoom In or Zoom Out select magnification or reduction by either
a fixed or selectable amount around the current center of the display.
Click the left mouse button to display cross-hairs.
View/Pan Center then pans to this point.
To Zoom to a window, click and drag the left mouse button to outline
a rectangle.
Then either pick View/Zoom In/to Window to zoom in, or
View/Zoom Out/to Window to zoom out.

The following selections are on the File menu.
The File/New selection allows you to select a fractal type from a
dialog box.
File/Open reads in a .GIF file (saved by one of the FRACTINT family
programs) to view or continue calculating,
or a OS/2 Presentation Manager (BMP) or Windows 3 Bitmap (Win3 BMP).
A .GIF file created by other than a FRACTINT family program,
or a bitmap, will
be restored as a PLASMA fractal, which is not zoomable or otherwise
editable.
The program distinguishes between OS/2 Presentation Manager and
Windows 3 Bitmaps when loading, so you may actually read in
either kind by selecting either BMP or Win3 BMP.
File/Save as writes a .GIF file,
OS/2 Presentation Manager Bitmap, or Windows 3 Bitmap
of the current fractal and screen
display.
The file format for the Bitmap file will be determined
by your selection of BMP or Win3 BMP (some programs
will only read one or the other).
File/Print prints either to the default Presentation Manger printer,
or, via direct code, to an HP PaintJet.
File/Read Color Map reads a FRACTINT family .MAP file and makes it
available as the User Palette selection in the Options/Set Palette
dialog, discussed below.
File/Write Color Map writes the palette values currently selected
by the Options/Set Palette dialog to a FRACTINT family
.MAP file.

The Edit menu allows access to the OS/2 Presentation Manager Clipboard.
Edit/Copy Bmp will place a copy of the current screen image
on the PM Clipboard as a Bitmap.
Color information is transmitted as part of the bitmap, but
the fractal description information (that would be saved
as part of a FRACTINT .GIF file) is not.
This option is available only when a fractal is currently
not being calculated, and will be grayed-out
if it cannot be .
Edit/Paste, brings a bitmap off the PM Clipboard back onto
the screen.
As no fractal description information is available, the
display becomes a PLASMA fractal.
Edit/Paste is available only if a calculation is not
currently in progress, and there is actually a
bitmap on the Clipboard.
Edit/Clear ClipBoard causes Fractint for PM to discard
any current contents of the PM Clipboard, whatever it
is and from whatever source is came from.
The entries Edit/Text on ClipBoard, Edit/Bitmap on ClipBoard,
and Edit/MetaFile on ClipBoard are not grayed if true -
they represent exploratory code left in for the time being
and give an indication of the current state of the PM ClipBoard.
They don't do anything if selected.

The following selections are on the Options menu.
The Options/Swap to Mandel or Options/Swap to Julia allows you to switch
between related Mandelbrot and Julia sets if the specific fractal
allows that.
The Options/Set Extents displays and allows modification of the X and Y
extents of the complex plane (the numbers that the fractals are
defined and calculated on) that the display window represents.
This is a numeric display of the changes made by the View menu.
The Options/Set Parameters displays and allows modification to various
numeric parameters that each fractal calculation contains.
The meaning and effects of these parameters can be determined
from the discussion of the specific fractal in the
Help/Fractal Types display.
The Options/Set Options selects various calculation options, such as
integer or floating point math, number of passes, and calculation
depth (max iterations).
The Options/Reset Above will, when in the Freeze state, allow
the cancelation of changes made by one of the above options,
restoring the "current" calculation options from what is currently
displayed.
The Options/Set Image Settings changes the number and color depth of
the pixels being calculated.
The colors can be 2 (black and white), 16 color, or 256 color.
The pixel dimensions largely affect the resolution of a future saved
or printed image, as whatever is being calculated will be compressed
or expanded as needed to fit in the display window.
The Options/Set Palette selects a dialog giving various palette
options.
The Black and White, 16-color VGA, 256-color VGA, and Physical palette
are fixed by the program or your hardware.
The User Loaded Palette selection will be enabled when sucessfully
loaded by an external palette, such as reading a Color Map via
the File/Read Color Map menu selection, or by the palette contained
in a loaded .GIF file.

At any time additional Help can be displayed.
The Help/Introduction display describes the basics of fractals
and the calculation engine this program uses.
The Help/Fractal Types describes the fractal types displayable
by this program.

When you get tired of consuming computer resources looking
at pretty pictures, the File/Exit selection will shut down the
program.

Have loads of fun!!

Donald P. Egen  [CIS 73507,3143]
